Documentation for directory structure | Introducing Dirdoc™ (#583)
UAlbertaALTLab/cree-intelligent-dictionary: docs/directory-structure.md

All directories in this file are relative to project root

Each directory should start with three hashes 

###.github
configuration files that interact with GitHub services 
###.github/workflows
workflow (interchangeably, actions) that runs by GitHub Actions service when code pushes to GitHub.
###CreeDictionary

A Django site with _django apps_ inside

###CreeDictionary/API
One of the django apps of our project. It defines click-in-text (our other project) API. 

###CreeDictionary/API/migrations
Django Migrations of the API app

Migrations are not used to migrate database on production
The only times migrations are needed are when we re-build the database and
create empty tables with `manage.py migrate`

This includes when we manually build test database, 
and when our unit tests build test in memory database. 

0000_initial.py migration is re-generated based on models.py everytime when the database is rebuilt.  

> This directory is managed by the rebuild script and does not require manual intervention

Author: yoinked from that local README.md. Four local REAMDE markdowns were deleted/edited. If the original markdown has a lot of details I kept them and referred to them here.

###CreeDictionary/tests/DatabaseManager_tests/data

Input cases for Database Manager CLI. Minimal examples of test dictionary inputs.

###CreeDictionary/utils

A python module of Utility functions

###CreeDictionary/tests/utils_tests

Tests for the utils module.

###CreeDictionary/tests/utils_tests/data

Test data for the utils module

###CreeDictionary/tests/utils_tests/data/layouts

More test data for the utils module

###cypress

Cypress is our integration testing tool. This is where test scripts and helpers reside.

###cypress/fixtures

Test data for integration tests.

###cypress/fixtures/recording

Test data for integration tests.

###cypress/fixtures/recording/_search

Test data for integration tests.

###cypress/integration

Detailed specification of the tests.

###cypress/support

Our integration test utilities.

###docs

The most important thing in the word

###docs/images

images used in the docs

###libexec

Utility tools that are usually dependency free and ran by developers.

###src

All our javascripts and css. They eventually are compiled to static folders.

###src/css

All our css. They eventually are compiled to static folders.

###src/css/vendor

> vendor css are the css that standardize browser differences.

Author: correct me if I'm wrong

> 

Author: yeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee

### CreeDictionary/API
One of the django apps of our project. It defines click-in-text (our other project) API. 

### CreeDictionary/API/migrations
Django Migrations of the API app

Migrations are not used to migrate database on production
The only times migrations are needed are when we re-build the database and
create empty tables with `manage.py migrate`

This includes when we manually build test database, 
and when our unit tests build test in memory database. 

0000_initial.py migration is re-generated based on models.py everytime when the database is rebuilt.  

This directory is managed by the rebuild script and does not require manual intervention

### CreeDictionary/CreeDictionary
One of the django apps of our project. It's the main part of our online dictionary.

### CreeDictionary/CreeDictionary/static
static files (A django concept) for the CreeDictionary app. They are usually javascripts and images

### CreeDictionary/CreeDictionary/templates
templates (A django concept, usually for HTML) for the CreeDictionary app.

### CreeDictionary/CreeDictionary/static/CreeDictionary
see below

### CreeDictionary/CreeDictionary/templates/CreeDictionary

> You might think there is no stupid reason such verbose-looking directories should exist. But it's Django. 

Reviewer: It took me a while to figure out the method to this madness. It makes sense now, but :S

### CreeDictionary/API/templatetags
see below

### CreeDictionary/morphodict/templatetags
see below

### CreeDictionary/CreeDictionary/templatetags
defines custom tags you can use in django templates.
A tag looks in the form of {{}} or {{ | }} and is a Django feature

### CreeDictionary/DatabaseManager

A python module with a CLI that manages importation of xml files to our db.sqlite3. Not used at runtime.

> See more under the directorie's readme.md about how to use it

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See more under the directory's README.md about how to use it
```

### CreeDictionary/DatabaseManager/logs

> Logs Database manager emits

Reviewer: Uh... please rewrite this sentence!

### CreeDictionary/django_logs

This directory stores logs on production.

### CreeDictionary/morphodict

A django app that has our language invariant components of the project. This is currently a WIP.

### CreeDictionary/morphodict/tests

Tests that belong to morphodict. 
It's separate from most tests as in the future morphodict might be extracted to a standalone django app.  

### CreeDictionary/res

Data files. See README under the directory to see explanation of its contents.  

### CreeDictionary/res/dictionaries

Dictionary files that are not public. This directory's contents are ignored by a local .gitignore

dictionary files are stored in altlab repo at the following place:

`altlab/crk/dicts/crkeng.xml`

> It's was also used to be stored on Sapir server with a timestamp like the following

Reviewer: ```suggestion
They also used to be stored on Sapir server with a timestamp like the following
```

`crkeng_cw_md_200314.xml`

The last six digits is a timestamp of when this file is built, in the format of yymmdd.

### CreeDictionary/res/fst

> Ask your supervisor what an FST is. 

Reviewer: 🤣

### CreeDictionary/tests

Where all tests except morphodict's tests reside.

### CreeDictionary/tests/API_tests

Test for the API django app

### CreeDictionary/tests/CreeDictionary_tests

Test for the CreeDictionary django app

### CreeDictionary/tests/DatabaseManager_tests

Test for the DatabaseManager python module

### CreeDictionary/tests/DatabaseManager_tests/data

Input cases for Database Manager CLI. Minimal examples of test dictionary inputs.

### CreeDictionary/utils

A python module of Utility functions

### CreeDictionary/tests/utils_tests

Tests for the utils module.

### CreeDictionary/tests/utils_tests/data

Test data for the utils module

### CreeDictionary/tests/utils_tests/data/layouts

More test data for the utils module

### cypress

Cypress is our integration testing tool. This is where test scripts and helpers reside.

### cypress/fixtures

Test data for integration tests.

### cypress/fixtures/recording

Test data for integration tests.

### cypress/fixtures/recording/_search

Test data for integration tests.

### cypress/integration

Detailed specification of the tests.

### cypress/support

Our integration test utilities.

### docs

> The most important thing in the word

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The most important thing in the world
```

### docs/images

images used in the docs

### libexec

Utility tools that are usually dependency free and ran by developers.

### src

All our javascripts and css. They eventually are compiled to static folders.

### src/css

All our css. They eventually are compiled to static folders.

### src/css/vendor

> vendor css are the css that standardize browser differences.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
"vendor" refers to code originally created by outside sources. For example, `normalize.css` is an external script that "[makes browsers render all elements more consistently ..."][normalize].

[normalize]: https://necolas.github.io/normalize.css/
```
